## How the custom texture system works
Normally, resourcepacks are used to change the textures of
regular minecraft items to something that looks better.
However, modern minecraft versions have resourcepack
predicates, which make it possible to only assign custom
textures to items *under the right circumstances*.
One of these predicates allows the resourcepack to base its
decision on whether the item stack to be shown:
- is *unbreak***able** (not to be confused with the unbreak**ing** enchantment)
- has lost *durability*
- has *CustomModelData*

The method used depends on the *internal item type* of
the custom item to be textured.

### The *Other* internal item type
Custom items with the **Other** internal item type
(only available in MC 1.14 and later), will be textured
using **CustomModelData**, which is a nice minecraft
feature designed for this.

### The rest of the items
In MC 1.13 and earlier, users can't use the **Other**
internal item type, so a different approach must be used.
The resourcepacks generated by the *Editor* will assign
different textures to item stacks that have lost durability,
but are unbreakable. Such items clearly can't be obtained
legitimately (players can't even obtain unbreakable items,
let alone unbreakable items that lost durability).
But, the plug-in can construct such items via the Bukkit
API, which is how it will spawn such custom items in-game.
The system described here is used to achieve the custom textures.
The rest of the custom item features is not so special.
