## Repository structure
This repository is split into several modules:

### bit-helper
The bit-helper module is a small library of mine that is
used for compact binary (de)serialization.
When I started this plug-in, I thought it was a good idea
to use this, but I am starting to see its limitations.
Nevertheless, it is very stable
(has been used in production for more than 6 years
without any failures) and its results are still
quite good (although they could be improved).

### ce-event-handler
This module is the (tiny) part of the plug-in that directly
depends on CrazyEnchantments. Because CrazyEnchantments is
compiled with Java 17 and the `plug-in` module needs to be
compatible with Java 8, I can't just put this inside the
`plug-in` module. Some special built steps are used
to ensure that `ce-event-handler` will be compiled 
using Java 17.

### custom-recipes
My module for registering and handling custom
crafting/cooking/smithing recipes.
It is not tightly coupled to the plug-in,
and I intend to eventually publish this as a separate
module to be usable by other developers as well.

### editor
This module is the source code for *the Editor*.
This is a GUI application that users must use to
configure the plug-in. The users must download it
and run it on their computer. Using this GUI,
they can configure their custom items
(choose their textures, attack damage, display name, and
lots of other stuff...).

### gui
This module is a small gui library that I made many years
ago. When I started this custom items plug-in,
I thought it was a good idea to use this library to write
the Editor. After using it for a few years, I started
seeing the limitations of this library: the scale of
everything is based on the size of the window. This has
the benefit that the editor will look the same to everyone,
regardless of their screen resolution
(try resizing your window to see what I mean),
but has the drawback that this can cause distortion of
text and images. Also, it lacks many interesting features
that would have avoided the need of implementing all views
myself. Switching to a different GUI library might be
a good idea, but I am not so sure the amount of work
is worth it.

### kci-nms...
This project has many `kci-nms` modules.
These modules take care of features that require a
different implementation for each minecraft version.
For instance, these modules take care of NMS and some
features that were added to the Bukkit API in later
minecraft versions.

The `kci-nms` module itself defines the interface that
is implemented by all the `kci-nmsXX` modules.
Each `kci-nmsXX` module implements these interfaces
for minecraft `1.XX`.

The modules `kci-nms13plus`, `kci-nms16plus`,
`kci-nms18plus`, and `kci-nms20plus` facilitate code reuse
between their corresponding minecraft version,
and later versions.

### plug-in
This module is the source code of the custom items plug-in
itself. The plug-in essentially finds the binary
configuration file generated by the Editor, deserializes it,
and makes sure that everything configured in the Editor
actually happens in-game.

### shared-code
This module contains the code that is used by both
the Editor and the plug-in.

### test-custom-recipes
This module contains the unit tests for **custom-recipes**.
Because this module relies on MockBukkit,
which doesn't support Java 8, this module requires a later
Java version, and thus can't be combined
with the **custom-recipes** module itself.
